I made a choice of the five or six senses I made, such as the "up," "home," "smell," "taste," "t
ouched," "touched" and "consulted," all that.
All that variety goes, all that. But reality, where there comes goes, when you see these things.
That's what reality must say. When you, when you, when you are in this again PB11, when you realize
this, it is all "one taste" within the awarenesses.
Even you see "home," even you see "song," or hear the song, and all those different things, you see
, "oh, this is song, this is that thing," all that.
But where that, where that knowledge, where that knowledge, where that memory, where? It's the mind
.
When you come to the mind, what is it called? There is no different department that we can find.
Or that is the recognition, recognition of the poem. This is the recognition of the song. This is
the recognition of the taste, the smell.
So I tell you, in the mind, no. None of those exist. It's called, that's why it's called "one taste
," "one place."
Where that mergant, back to that source, what we're talking, back to that ground, to that ground,
it's merged back to that status.
That status, for that reason here, great masters, masters said, when you realize this, it is all "
one taste" within the awarenesses.
And when you have that realization, that moment, here, let's align it. That moment, subject and
object merge with the wisdom beyond the dualities.
That moment, when you see this "one taste" in the text, when you have the realization of the "one
taste," that moment, it is, then, pre-provisional dualities.
There's no subject. There's no object. Object. All merged. All merged without any trace, without
any parent.
Merged. And then, therefore, there's no dualities. When there's no dualities, what is that?
That is primordial, pristine awareness, primordial, pristine awareness or primordial wisdom.
That is the wisdom. And you'll be holding the exact nature of the mind as it is. We'll be holding
that.
And when you have that realization, what is the energy, you said here?
Instantly and powerfully, by these techniques, habit appearance and dualities are uprooted.
This technique, when you just behold the nature of the mind, exactly as it is beyond the dualities,
that moment, then, the one uprooted, habit appearance and dualities.
It's uprooted. It's uprooted. It's also uprooted means it's completely pre-provisional.
It's nothing that's subject or object to be uprooted.
That instantly, duality, habit appearance are liberated within that organic, natural state of the d
harmakaya or that ground, that ground of our own, ground of all.
It's instantly removed. It is dissolved, dissolved. And when that happens, when that happens, or
this moment, then again, here, Giriravastri, as in every emphasizing, that moment, the essence of
the wisdom is you behold.
You behold the essence of the wisdom or the primordial wisdom. You behold.
And when you behold the primordial wisdom, what is there to see?
There's nothing that you can see, that can say the colorful things we see.
See, what is there? When you don't see, and the teaching says, when you don't see anything, that is
supreme sense.
When you don't see, that is supreme sense. So, you reach to the speech elastics, speech elastics,
and beyond the conception.
The open, brilliant, and clear, that says, really shine, and you behold that.
For that reason, this part of the Dzogji teaching is known as the speech part, or very part that
brings the realization so quickly.
Therefore, that is known as the swear to part, and swear to part quickly gets the realization of
the enlightened person.
And those fortunate beings in the teaching say, well, they're sitting down on the ground, or on the
cushion.
Maybe they are all the beings, and when they're married and for a short time, when they're raised
up from the cushion, they're already Buddhas.
So, sitting down as a samsara, deluded beings, getting up as enlightened beings.
That has happened to such as really great masters, or great those that port to the enlightenment.
Examples such as like, this Bangui Mohan Gombo in the teaching said, Bangui Mohan Gombo.
And he was one of the first leading student of the great master, Verojana, Bangui Mohan Gombo.
And he was very old, also many times, many histories, it depends, but some histories that he was
old as like maybe in the 90s, that approach.
And when he was in the 90s, then his relatives and families all become not so nice to him.
He's so kind of like dispelled, but he heard the reputation of the great master, Verojana, who is
that time in East Tibet.
So, he's really hoping that he will see this great master in a resistive teaching, but then he can
't travel to where Verojana is.
And so, he's really waking always. For one time, he heard Verojana is returning from East Tibet to
Central Tibet.
And then the path on the road of the Verojana is where he's waiting.
And then the teaching said that he waited and he met Verojana, and Verojana gave the teachings of
the doctor-teachers.
And he was so happy, so delighted by this even the teaching and meeting the Verojana.
And he saw that even he hugged the Verojana and really let go for a while, and long off, hugged.
And he's so happy. And he put the practices, and soon after he become one of the great Dzokhi
masters.
He sold after very quickly. And the teacher said that he is one of the highly capable practitioners
of capable students by visiting the Dzokhi teaching.
And very soon, he become the total enlightenment. He got a leg as like rainbow boaters.
And not just only that, after 70 generations from his students, one after another,
they all got rainbow boaters. One after another.
Those are known as the radial chain of the space section of the Dzokhi teaching.
One after another, they all got so very light.
And like this, I mean Dzokhi teaching, every really practicing meditation, as teaching, has stopped
it.
And then we get good results. Even it really gets enlightenment or become as like Pangi Mohan Gombo
.
But yet, really we will get good proof, good results.
And that is the reason the teaching is about the teachings.
And also, when we meet or receive such a great teaching or connect with this great teaching,
that means we are also a candidate of these practices.
It's not something we are not a candidate. We are a candidate. We are connected with this teaching.
Connect with this teaching. And since we received this as a great teaching or we can connect with
this great teaching,
and we are a candidate, we are a candidate to be able to connect with this,
and we apply this teaching by heart, and call it instructions in teaching.
Truly, we will make a difference. We will make a difference.
And what the great master, what is it?
Have you realized this in life, within these lifetimes? That's wonderful.
Even if you didn't get enlightenment by practice at least, as much as we can do,
with it, with it, according to instruction, we will lead this world with joy,
with peace, with confidence, and with the destination.
That's what the great master is talking about.
This is really true. This is very, I mean, for that reason,
this is known as the swept past.